Trading of stocks and other commercial entities is of great interests to both institutions and individuals.  I used available data and analytical tools learned through this class.  I used yahoo finance stock trading data (daily range).  I used time series analysis tools including decision tree as well as ARIMA time series regression.  
One can fit past data with high accuracy (if not over fitting), but the power for predicting future stock price is low.  Two methods are used to predict future trading actions.  In one, the trading decision for next day is random.  In another, the trading decision is based on yesterday’s gain or loss.  
I come to the conclusion that high accuracy prediction can be achieved with high frequency data (stock data every minute or seconds).  However, such data is expensive to obtain.  
The business understanding of stock ensemble behavior is important for casual investors.
I have a hypothesis that stock trading based on trends is more important than daily noise prediction.  In a supply chain from upstream to downstream, companies’ stock rise and fall with time lag.  This makes it possible to predict stock performance based on the performance of supply chain up stream companies. I demonstrate such behavior in the eras of internet bubble and collapse, the 2007 financial crisis, and the volatility from Nov 2024 to March 2025.
The upstream companies stock typically change first, and the retail companies stock change last.  This gives ample signals for early trading and positioning to achieve trading gains in a couple of weeks time frame.
